# Comparative performance evaluation of sorting algorithms

Sorting algorithm is a fundamental operation in different practical fields of computer sciences, database applications, networks and artificial intelligence. Most practical applications in computer programming will require the output to be arranged in a sequential order since handling the elements in a certain order is more efficient than handling randomize elements. Efficient sorting is important for optimizing the use of other algorithms, such as search and merge algorithms, that require sorted lists to work correctly. Information rapid growth in our world leads to the fact that the sorting problem has attracted a great deal of research. A lot of sorting algorithms has been developed to enhance the performance in terms of computational complexity, time complexity, memory space, and stability. Therefore, most programmers are faced with the challenges in chosen which algorithm would be best used in developing their software. We make a comparison research with the aim to come up with the most efficient sorting algorithm. When comparing various sorting algorithms, the factors mentioned above must be taken in consideration.  
 
The sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order. The most-used orders are numerical order and lexicographical order. In this project, a comparative performance evaluation of four comparison based sorting algorithms: Insertion-Sort, Merge-Sort, combined Merge-Insertion-Sort and Quick-Sort, based on vectors of integers of increasing sizes, will be presented by the performance factors. Each of them has a different mechanism to reorder. All algorithms were implemented in C++ programming languages and tested for the random sequence input of length 100 through 50000. 
 
The ultimate goal of this study is to proposed a methodology for the users to select an efficient sorting algorithm. Finally, the reader with a particular problem in mind can choose the best sorting algorithm. 
